I BET YOU'VE WATCHED A
FEW MOVIES IN YOUR TIME.
ANYTHING FROM COMEDIES
TO ACTION MOVIES
AND HORROR FLICKS.
YOU NAME IT, I BET
YOU'VE SEEN IT.
YOU'RE PROBABLY EVEN
THINKING YOU'VE SEEN
SOMETHING LIKE
THIS BEFORE.
YOU SEE, FILM IS
A VISUAL LANGUAGE.
JUST LIKE WE HAVE TO LEARN
HOW TO READ AND WRITE,
YOU HAVE TO LEARN HOW
TO MAKE SENSE OF
WHAT YOU SEE
ON THE SCREEN.
WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND
THE COMPLEX LANGUAGE
OF FILM AND TELEVISION.
MOST OF THE FILM AND
TELEVISION PROGRAMS
YOU WATCH BEGIN IN
A PLACE LIKE THIS -
A PRODUCTION HOUSE.
THEY BEGIN WITH AN IDEA
WHICH IS USUALLY DISCUSSED
IN A SCRIPT MEETING
LIKE THIS ONE.
AND ONCE THE STORY
IS DECIDED UPON
THE WRITER WILL SIT DOWN
AND WRITE THE SCRIPT.
HOW'S IT GOING, GANG?
HI JUDY!
THEN THE FINISHED SCRIPT
GOES INTO PRODUCTION.
THAT'S WHEN THE CAST
AND CREW TAKE THE SCRIPT
AND SHOOT THE
FILM OR VIDEO.
RECORDING AND... ACTION!
AND FINALLY THERE'S
POST-PRODUCTION WHERE
THE FOOTAGE IS EDITED
INTO THE FINAL VERSION
WE SEE ON OUR SCREENS.
HI GEORGE.
HI JUDY.
WHAT ARE YOU
WORKING ON?
I'M MAKING THIS HORROR
FILM ABOUT A SERIAL KILLER
THAT'S ON THE LOOSE
AND THERE'S THIS GIRL
STUCK AT WORK.
I WROTE THE
SCRIPT FOR THAT.
REALLY?
YEAH.
COME HAVE A LOOK
AT THE LAST BIT.
THE KILLER GETS
IT IN THE END.
BUT JUST WHEN YOU
THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE...
WELL, YOU KNOW HOW
THESE THINGS GO;
IT'S A HORROR FLICK.
YOU THINK THEY'RE
DEAD... BUT ARE THEY?
YOU JUST CAN'T GET RID
OF THEM THAT EASILY.
ARRRRGH!
FRANK!
DON'T DO THAT.
SORRY.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING
ANYWAY, ARE YOU
TALKING TO
YOURSELF AGAIN?
I'M JUST EXPLAINING A
HORROR MOVIE THAT I WROTE.
WHAT'S IT ABOUT?
PRETTY STANDARD HORROR
FLICK, YOU KNOW,
GIRL LEFT ALONE AT
WORK BY HERSELF,
SERIAL KILLER
ON THE LOOSE.
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE END?
DO THEY GET THE KILLER?
OF COURSE THEY DO.
YEAH, BUT DID
HE REALLY DIE?
I'M NOT GOING TO
TELL YOU THAT, FRANK.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
WATCH IT AND FIND OUT.
TO TELL YOU THE TRUTH
JUDY, I'M NOT REALLY
ALL THAT KEEN ON
HORROR MOVIES.
NO? YOU'RE NOT SCARED,
ARE YOU FRANK?
NO...
HEY, LOOK, I'M AN
ACTION JUNKIE, OKAY?
GIVE ME AN ACTION
FILM ANY DAY.
I LOVE THE CHASES AND
THE FIGHTS AND THE CARS
AND HOW THEY ARREST
THE BAD GUY AT THE END,
SNAP THE CUFFS
ON HIM AND SAY
"HEY, YOU'RE BUSTED!"
JEEZ, FRANK, I THINK
YOU'VE MISSED YOUR CALLING.
FRANK!
SORRY, JUDY, BETTER GO.
WE ALL HAVE OUR
FAVORITE TYPES OF FILMS.
HORROR, ROMANCE, ACTION
AND DRAMA ARE SOME OF
THE MOST POPULAR GENRES.
FOR MOST OF US, WATCHING
ONE OR TWO OF THESE TYPES
OF FILMS WILL GIVE US
ENOUGH OF AN UNDERSTANDING
OF HOW THE NEXT
MOVIE WILL BE.
THIS IS USUALLY BECAUSE
GENRES HAVE CONVENTIONS
THAT ARE EASILY
RECOGNIZABLE.
FOR INSTANCE, HORROR FANS
CAN EXPECT THE KILLER
TO COME BACK AT THE
END FOR ONE LAST SCARE.
PEOPLE WHO LIKE ROMANTIC
COMEDIES KNOW THAT
THE UNLIKELY COUPLE WILL
EVENTUALLY SHARE A KISS.
AND A HIGH-OCTANE ACTION
FLICK IS LIKELY TO CONTAIN
AT LEAST ONE CAR CHASE
AND A COUPLE OF EXPLOSIONS
BEFORE THE HERO WINS OUT.
THESE ARE ALL CONVENTIONAL
ELEMENTS OF A GENRE FILM'S
NARRATIVE STRUCTURE.
WE MAKE SENSE OF THE
FILM BY RECOGNIZING
THESE ELEMENTS AND
REACTING TO THEM.
RARELY DO NARRATIVE
FILMS DRAW ATTENTION
TO THE STYLISTIC ELEMENTS
THAT HELP MAKE UP
THE FILM'S FORM LIKE
THE LIGHTING, THE SOUND,
THE EDITING, THE
CAMERA ANGLES.
USUALLY THESE THINGS ARE
HIDDEN FROM THE VIEWER
SO AS TO CREATE A KIND
OF ONSCREEN REALITY.
BUT NOTHING ABOUT FILM IS
REAL, SO WE NEED TO LEARN
HOW TO RECOGNIZE AND
UNDERSTAND THE DIFFERENT
FILM TECHNIQUES THAT
HELP A NON-PRINT TEXT
CONVEY MEANING.
AND RECORDING... AND ACTION!
FIRST THING I NEED TO DO IS
GRAB ANOTHER CUP OF COFFEE.
JUDY?
YES.
CAN I SPEAK TO YOU
FOR A MOMENT, PLEASE?
HI PAUL.
JUDY, HAVE YOU FINISHED
THAT SCRIPT YET?
THE ONE ABOUT THE LANGUAGE
OF FILM AND TELEVISION?
OH, NO, NOT YET.
I'M STILL WORKING ON IT.
I REALLY NEED IT ON
MY DESK BY 9:00 AM
TOMORROW MORNING.
YEAH, I WAS GOING TO
STAY BACK LATER TONIGHT
AND FINISH IT OFF.
THAT'S GREAT.
THANKS, JUDY.
THANKS.
WOULD YOU MIND SHUTTING
THE DOOR, PLEASE.
YEAH.
MUCH LIKE A NOVEL OR
SHORT STORY, THE NARRATIVE
ELEMENTS OF A CONVENTIONAL
NARRATIVE FILM
USUALLY UNFOLD
THROUGH ITS CHARACTERS
AND IN PARTICULAR THROUGH
THE CENTRAL CHARACTER,
OR THE PROTAGONIST.
WE'RE USUALLY INTRODUCED
TO THE PROTAGONIST
AT THE VERY BEGINNING
OF THE FILM.
THE ACTIONS OF THIS
CHARACTER, THE OBSTACLES
THAT BEFALL HIM OR HER,
AND THE WAY IN WHICH HE
OR SHE DEALS WITH THEM,
USUALLY WORK TO PROPEL
THE STORY FORWARD TO ITS
END POINT, OR CLIMAX.
BUT WHEN WE SEE A FILM
WE DON'T ONLY ENGAGE
WITH THE NARRATIVE,
NOR DO WE MAKE SENSE
OF A FILM LIKE WE'D
MAKE SENSE OF A
NOVEL OR SHORT STORY
- BY INTERPRETING THE
WORDS ON THE PAGE.
A FILM TEXT HAS ITS
OWN UNIQUE WAY OF
COMMUNICATING
WITH THE VIEWER.
IN ORDER FOR US TO FULLY
UNDERSTAND A FILM,
WE NEED TO UNDERSTAND THE
TECHNIQUES AND FEATURES
OF THE FILM MEDIUM.
THE FOUR POINTS I THINK
ARE A REALLY GOOD GUIDE TO
GETTING ON TOP OF READING
THESE FILMS AS TEXT...
AND THE FOUR POINTS THAT
ARE IMPORTANT FOR US TO
THINK ABOUT WHEN
WE'RE DOING THIS ARE
- CERTAINLY CINEMATOGRAPHY -
WHAT THE CAMERA IS DOING,
THE WAY THE CAMERA
SEES THE ACTION,
WHERE THE CAMERA
IS PLACED.
SECONDLY, I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO THINK ABOUT
WHAT GOES INTO THE FIELD
OF VISION FOR THE CAMERA
AND THAT'S OFTEN GIVEN
THE TERM "MISE-EN-SCENE",
THE FRENCH TERM WHICH MEANS
LITERALLY THAT WHICH IS
PLACED INTO THE SCENE OR
INTO THE ACTION OF THE SCENE
AND THAT CAN BE A
VARIOUS RANGE OF THINGS.
THIRDLY, I THINK,
AND IMPORTANTLY
IS THE ISSUE OF SOUND.
WHERE DOES
SOUND COME FROM?
IS IT A SOUNDTRACK?
IS IT A POPULAR SONG?
IS IT PLAYING WITHIN THE
ENVIRONMENT OF THE ACTION
OR IS IT IMPOSED ON
TOP OF THE ACTION?
FOURTHLY, AND I THINK IN
A SENSE, WHERE THE FILM
IS ACTUALLY MADE IS
IN THE EDITING ROOM.
THE IDEA OF HOW
A FILM IS CUT
OR HOW SHOTS ARE
PUT TOGETHER.
MOST PEOPLE HAVE HEARD OF
EDITING, CAMERA SHOTS
AND PLACING SOUND TO FILM,
BUT HOW MANY OF THEM
ACTUALLY NOTICE IT?
AND HOW MANY OF YOU
HAVE HEARD OF THE TERM
MISE-EN-SCENE?
COSTUME AND SCENERY WE
WOULD USUALLY CONSIDER
AS PART OF
MISE-EN-SCENE:
THAT WHICH IS PUT
INTO THE SCENE.
WE OFTEN TAKE COSTUME
AND SCENERY FOR GRANTED,
PARTICULARLY IN
FILMS THAT ARE
SET IN A
CONTEMPORARY SETTING.
HOWEVER, NOTHING GOES
INTO THE SHOT THAT ISN'T
TOTALLY THE OBJECT OF
SOMEONE'S DESIRE -
USUALLY THE DIRECTOR
OR, IN THIS CASE,
THE COSTUME DESIGNER
OR THE SET DESIGNER.
WATCH THIS SCENE AGAIN
AND SEE HOW ALTERATIONS
TO THE MISE-EN-SCENE
ALTER THE WAY IN WHICH
WE PERCEIVE THE ACTION.
JUDY? CAN I SPEAK TO YOU
FOR A MOMENT, PLEASE?
YEAH.
HI PAUL.
JUDY, HAVE YOU FINISHED
THAT SCRIPT YET?
THE ONE ABOUT THE LANGUAGE
OF FILM AND TELEVISION?
OH, NO, NOT YET.
I'M STILL WORKING ON IT.
I NEED IT ON MY DESK BY
9:00 AM TOMORROW MORNING.
YEAH, I WAS GOING
TO STAY BACK TONIGHT
AND FINISH IT OFF.
OKAY, THANKS JUDY.
THANKS.
AND CLOSE THE DOOR.
JUDY? CAN I SEE YOU
FOR A MOMENT, PLEASE?
HI PAUL.
JUDY, HAVE YOU FINISHED
THAT SCRIPT YET?
THE ONE ABOUT THE LANGUAGE
OF FILM AND TELEVISION?
OH, NO, NOT YET.
I'M STILL
FINISHING IT OFF.
LOOK, I REALLY NEED IT BY
9:00 AM TOMORROW MORNING.
YEAH, I'LL STAY BACK
TONIGHT AND FINISH IT OFF.
THAT'D BE GREAT.
THANKS, JUDY.
OKAY.
JUDY? COULD YOU SHUT
THE DOOR, PLEASE?
THESE CHOICES OF COSTUME
AND SET DESIGN HAVE,
AGAIN, A VERY STRONG
IMPRESSION BOTH ON
THE CHARACTERS
IN THE ACTION
AND ON THE SPECTATOR
VIEWING THE SCENE.
BEYOND THAT WE THINK ABOUT
THE WAY A SCENE IS LIT.
NOW THAT MAY ALSO BE SEEN
AS PART OF MISE-EN-SCENE
BUT IT IS IMPORTANT FOR
CINEMATOGRAPHY AS WELL.
CAMERA MEN OR CAMERA
WOMEN ARE ALWAYS
VERY MUCH CONCERNED ABOUT
THE WAY A SCENE IS LIT
AND HOW THAT IMPACTS ON
WHAT THE CAMERA SEES.
SO I'M GOING TO BE SCARY?
DOWN THERE, CROUCHING
BEHIND THE COUCH.
NOW, BE SCARY, OKAY?
ALL RIGHT, I'LL
SEE WHAT I CAN DO.
LET ME SHOW YOU HOW CHANGES
TO LIGHTING AND CONTRAST
CAN GREATLY INFLUENCE
THE IMPACT OF A SCENE.
AS YOU CAN SEE
HERE, THIS DOESN'T
SEEM VERY SCARY, RIGHT?
THE ROOM IS WELL LIT, YOU
CAN SEE FRANK, AND YOU CAN
SEE GEORGE HIDING AT
THE SIDE OF THE COUCH.
OVERALL THERE'S VERY
LITTLE IMPACT TO THE SCENE.
BUT NOW, HIT THE LIGHTS.
BY ALTERING THE LIGHTING
AND CONTRAST OF THE SCENE,
YOU IMMEDIATELY NOTICE
A CHANGE IN MOOD
AND ATMOSPHERE.
A DIRECTOR CAN USE THE
LIGHTING TO GUIDE
THE VIEWER'S ATTENTION
TO CERTAIN OBJECTS
AND TO CONCEAL OTHERS.
IT'S JUST LIKE IN A HORROR
MOVIE WHERE THE KILLER
EMERGES FROM THE DARKNESS
INTO A SHAFT OF LIGHT.
OKAY! HIT THE LIGHTS.
THANKS GUYS.
WAS THAT IT?
WAS I SCARY ENOUGH?
SO AS YOU CAN SEE IT'S NOT
JUST THE CHARACTERS' WORDS
THAT NEED TO
BE UNDERSTOOD.
FILM IS A
VISUAL LANGUAGE.
AND JUST AS WE LEARN TO
RECOGNIZE LETTERS AND
WORDS AND THE MEANINGS
THAT THEY SIGNIFY, WE ALSO
NEED TO LEARN TO READ
MOVIE TEXTS AND RECOGNIZE
THE DIFFERENT ELEMENTS
THAT MAKE UP A FILM'S FORM
SO AS TO MAKE MEANING
AND DRAW CONCLUSIONS.
IN SHORT, WE MAKE SENSE
OF FILM BY RECOGNIZING
BOTH ITS NARRATIVE
AND STYLISTIC ELEMENTS
AND REACTING TO THEM.
HMM. WRITE THAT ONE DOWN.
(KNOCKING)
COME IN.
HEY, JUDE. HOW'S IT GOING?
YEAH, ALMOST DONE.
COOL. I'M GONNA
GET HOME, OKAY?
JUST THOUGHT I'D LET YOU KNOW
YOU'RE THE LAST ONE HERE.
I'LL COME WITH YOU AND
GRAB A CUP OF COFFEE.
JUDE, ARE YOU GOING TO
BE ALRIGHT BY YOURSELF?
YEAH, I'M ALWAYS HERE
LATE. I'LL BE FINE.
YOU MIGHT WANT TO MAKE
SURE YOU LOCK THE DOOR
BEHIND ME, OKAY?
WHY? IS SOMETHING WRONG?
YOU HEARD THE REPORT
ON THE NEWS, RIGHT?
WHAT REPORT?
ABOUT THE ESCAPED KILLER.
HE'S A REAL PSYCHO.
DON'T WORRY,
YOU'LL BE FINE.
JUST MAKE SURE YOU
LOCK THE DOOR, OKAY?
"...IS EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
IF YOU DO SEE HIM
PLEASE DO NOT TRY AND
APPREHEND HIM YOURSELF".
BYE, JUDY.
SEE YOU, FRANK.
DID YOU LOCK IT?
YEAH, I LOCKED IT.
BYE.
CAMERA, OR CINEMATOGRAPHY
AS WE SOMETIMES CALL IT,
IS A MAJOR ELEMENT IN THE
PRODUCTION OF ALL FILM
AND TELEVISION PROGRAMS.
IT'S WHAT THE CAMERA
CAPTURES SO, ULTIMATELY,
IT'S WHAT WE SEE
ON OUR SCREEN.
THERE ARE MANY DIFFERENT
ASPECTS WHICH MAKE UP
THIS IMPORTANT FIELD
AND, AS YOU SAW EARLIER,
LIGHTING IS
JUST ONE OF THEM.
OTHER AREAS OF CAMERA
INCLUDE FRAMING,
CAMERA SHOTS, CAMERA
ANGLES, AND MOVEMENT.
CLASSICALLY - THAT
IS COMMERCIALLY AND
TRADITIONALLY -
CINEMATOGRAPHY IS ABOUT
CAMERA MOVEMENT, ABOUT THE
WAY THAT LIGHT WORKS WITH
WHAT THE CAMERA SEES, WE
MIGHT ALSO EXTEND THAT
TO ISSUES OF COLOR.
BUT PRIMARILY I THINK
WE OFTEN THINK ABOUT
CINEMATOGRAPHY AND CAMERA
WORK WHEN WE DON'T NOTICE IT
- THAT IDEA OF
THE STABLE CAMERA.
BUT BEYOND THAT AND
PERHAPS MUCH MORE POPULAR
THESE DAYS WITH FILMS LIKE
THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT
OR FILMS LIKE WOODY ALLEN'S
HUSBANDS AND WIVES ,
THE MOVING CAMERA IS A
REALLY IMPORTANT WAY
OF PORTRAYING A SCENE.
THE FRAMING'S IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT CONTROLS,
WITHIN FOUR WALLS, THE
IMAGE FOR THE VIEWER.
THE FRAMING CONTROLS THE
VANTAGE POINT FROM WHICH
THE VIEWER CAN
WATCH THE ACTION.
THESE INCLUDE FRONT-ON,
FROM BEHIND,
AND SIDE-ON SHOTS.
THE FRAMING ALSO CONTROLS
THE ANGLE AT WHICH
OBJECTS WITHIN THE
SHOT ARE SHOWN.
THE ANGLE AT WHICH
SOMETHING IS SHOT
CAN GREATLY ALTER
ITS EFFECT.
FOR INSTANCE, A HIGH
ANGLE SHOT, WHICH
INVOLVES SHOOTING
SOMETHING FROM ABOVE,
CAN MAKE THE SUBJECT
LOOK SMALLER.
AND A LOW ANGLE SHOT,
WHICH IS SHOT FROM BELOW,
CAN MAKE THE OBJECT SEEM
LARGER OR MORE POWERFUL
THAN WHAT THEY ARE.
AND A DUTCH ANGLE SHOT,OR
DUTCH TILT, WHERE THE
CAMERA'S TILTED ON AN
ANGLE, CAN PROVIDE A SENSE
OF DISORIENTATION OR
UNEASINESS FOR THE VIEWER.
FRAMING ALSO CONTROLS THE
SENSE OF DISTANCE BETWEEN
THE VIEWER AND THE
ACTION ON THE SCREEN.
HERE'S A QUICK RUNDOWN OF
SOME OF THE TYPES OF SHOTS
AND THE WAY THEY
CAN BE USED.
THEY ARE THE EXTREME
LONG-SHOT: USUALLY RESERVED
FOR FRAMING LANDSCAPES,
CITIES AND COASTLINES
AND IN WHICH THE HUMAN
BODY IS BARELY VISIBLE.
THE LONG SHOT: IN WHICH
THE HUMAN FIGURES ARE
PROMINENT BUT IN WHICH THE
LANDSCAPE STILL DOMINATES.
THE MEDIUM LONG SHOT:
WHERE PEOPLE CAN BE SEEN
FROM ABOUT
THE KNEES UP.
THE MEDIUM SHOT: IN
WHICH THEY CAN BE SEEN
FROM THE WAIST UP.
THE MEDIUM CLOSE UP:
WHICH FRAMES SOMEONE
FROM THE CHEST UP.
THE CLOSE UP: WHICH
USUALLY FOCUSES ON
A FACE OR A
SPECIFIC OBJECT.
AND THE EXTREME CLOSE
UP: IN WHICH THE FRAMING
FOCUSES THE VIEWER'S
ATTENTION ON DETAIL.
REMEMBER THAT THE CONTEXT
OF THE FILM'S NARRATIVE
WILL INFLUENCE THE
MEANING THAT IS MADE
BY THE FRAMING
TECHNIQUES.
A CLOSE-UP EXCHANGE IN A
ROMANTIC SOAP OPERA
WILL SIGNIFY A DIFFERENT
MEANING THAN, SAY,
THE CLOSE-UP USED IN NEWS
FOOTAGE OF A CONVICTED
CON MAN OR A CLOSE-UP
IN A HORROR FILM.
MORE OFTEN THAN NOT, IT'S
THE CONTEXT OF THE FILM
THAT WILL DETERMINE THE
FUNCTION OF THE FRAMING.
OF COURSE, THESE FEATURES
OF FRAMING ARE A PART OF
EVERY FRAMED IMAGE.
PAINTINGS, PHOTOGRAPHS,
SKETCHES AND CARTOONS
ARE ALL FRAMED IN
RELATION TO HEIGHT,
LEVEL AND DISTANCE.
SPECIFIC TO FILM AND
TO TELEVISION, HOWEVER,
IS THE FRAME'S MOBILITY.
THE FRAME'S MOBILITY
IS USUALLY CALLED
"CAMERA MOVEMENT", AND THE
THREE MOST COMMON TYPES
OF CAMERA MOVEMENTS
ARE TRACKING SHOTS,
PANS AND TILTS.
(PHONE RINGS)
HELLO.
HI JUDE, IT'S FRANK.
OH, HI.
HAVE YOU SEEN MY
HEADPHONES ANYWHERE?
YUP, THEY'RE RIGHT
HERE ON YOUR DESK.
I'M LOOKING AT
THEM RIGHT NOW.
DAMN.
OKAY, I MIGHT POP IN
LATER ON TO PICK THEM UP.
OKAY, BYE.
A TRACKING SHOT OCCURS
WHEN THE CAMERA TRAVELS
IN ONE SMOOTH MOVEMENT
IN ANY DIRECTION -
USUALLY ON A SET OF
TRACKS CALLED A DOLLY.
ANOTHER COMMON CAMERA
MOVEMENT IS A PAN.
A PAN GIVES THE IMPRESSION
THAT THE FRAME IS
HORIZONTALLY
SCANNING SPACE.
THIS IS WHERE THE CAMERA
MOVES FROM SIDE TO SIDE
FROM A FIXED POSITION.
THIS TECHNIQUE CAN BE USED
TO GIVE THE IMPRESSION
THAT THE CHARACTER
IS SCANNING THE ROOM
WITH HIS OR HER EYES.
A TILT IS A CAMERA
MOVEMENT THAT IS ALSO
FROM A FIXED POSITION,
BUT IN THIS CASE
THE CAMERA MOVES
UP OR DOWN.
THESE MOVEMENTS CAN
HELP THE FILMMAKER DRAW
ATTENTION TO PARTICULAR
OBJECTS IN THE FRAME.
(LOUD NOISE)
WHICH BRINGS
US TO EDITING.
ONCE YOU BECOME
AWARE OF EDITING,
IT'S EASY TO NOTICE.
FILM AND TELEVISION
PROGRAMS RARELY USE ONE
CONTINUOUS SHOT; RATHER,
THEY'RE A SERIES OF SHOTS
STRUNG TOGETHER.
BUT THE REASON WE
SOMETIMES FORGET
ABOUT EDITING IS BECAUSE
MORE OFTEN THAN NOT
IT EXISTS AS A
FORM OF DISGUISE.
THIS IS CALLED
CONTINUITY EDITING.
(SOUND OF SOMEONE
TRYING TO OPEN DOOR)
CONTINUITY EDITING
IS VERY IMPORTANT.
IT'S ABOUT RELATING
IMAGES IN A KIND OF
A LOGICAL SEQUENCE.
FOR EXAMPLE, THERE'S
NO POINT CUTTING FROM...
WE MIGHT START WITH A
CLASSIC ESTABLISHING SHOT
- THE ESTABLISHING
SHOT OF THE HOUSE.
NOW IF WE CUT FROM A
HOUSE TO A SPACESHIP,
THAT'S ILLOGICAL.
WE'RE NOT EXPECTING THAT.
ACCORDING TO THE PRINCIPLES
OF CONTINUITY EDITING,
WE WOULDN'T DO
THAT KIND OF EDITING.
CONTINUITY EDITING IS
SOMETIMES BROKEN UP,
THAT PRINCIPLE OF
CONTINUITY IS DESTROYED
TO GIVE US AN EFFECT,
PERHAPS TO HEIGHTEN
THE IDEA OF UNCERTAINTY,
THE IDEA OF DISCOMFORT
IN THE SPECTATOR
WATCHING THE FILM.
THERE ARE OTHER TECHNIQUES
USED BY FILM EDITORS
TO ENSURE CONTINUITY.
THESE INCLUDE THE EYE
LINE MATCH: WHERE WE ARE
SHOWN SOMEONE LOOKING OFF
SCREEN AND THEN SHOWN
WHAT IS BEING LOOKED AT.
THE SHOT REVERSE SHOT
PATTERN: WHICH IS COMMONLY
USED IN CONVERSATIONS
BETWEEN CHARACTERS.
AND THE MATCH ON ACTION:
AN EDITING DEVICE WHERE
MOVEMENT IS CARRIED ACROSS
THE BREAK IN THE SHOTS.
EDITING, THE NARRATIVE,
MISE-EN-SCENE AND
CAMERA ANGLES ARE ALL
IMPORTANT ELEMENTS IN
UNDERSTANDING THE LANGUAGE
OF FILM AND TELEVISION.
(FOOTSTEPS)
AND THE GREATER WE
UNDERSTAND THESE ELEMENTS,
THE GREATER WE CAN
UNDERSTAND WHAT WE SEE
ON THE SCREEN.
WHO WAS THAT?
WHO DO YOU
THINK IT WAS?
I DON'T KNOW,
THAT KILLER DUDE?
LOOK WHAT HE
DID TO MY CAR!
SO HOPEFULLY THAT GIVES YOU
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT
- HOW FILM AND TELEVISION'S
UNIQUE LANGUAGE
MAKES MEANING.
AND REMEMBER, IF IT'S A
HORROR FILM, YOU PROBABLY
HAVEN'T SEEN THE
LAST OF THE KILLER.
THEY'RE NOT THAT
EASY TO GET RID OF.
FRANK!
SORRY.
*